The President:
Hi, everybody.
Our top priority as a nation
must be growing the economy,
creating good jobs, and
rebuilding opportunity for the
middle class.
But two months ago, Congress
allowed a series of automatic
budget cuts to fall across the
federal government that would do
the opposite.
In Washington-speak, these cuts
were called the "sequester."
It was a bad idea then.
And as the country saw this
week, it's a bad idea now.
Because of these reckless cuts,
there are parents whose kids
just got kicked out of Head
Start programs who right now are
scrambling for a solution.
There are seniors who depend on
programs like Meals on Wheels to
live independently who
are looking for help.
There are military
communities --
families that have obviously
already sacrificed enough --
who are coping under new strains
all because of these cuts.
This week, the sequester
hurt travelers,
who were stuck for hours
in airports and on planes,
and are rightly
frustrated by it.
And, maybe because they
fly home each weekend,
the Members of Congress who
insisted these cuts finally
realized that they
actually apply to them, too.
Republicans claimed victory when
the sequester first took effect,
and now they've decided that
it was a bad idea all along.
Well, first, they should
look at their own budget.
If the cuts they propose were
applied across the board,
the FAA would suffer
cuts three times deeper.
So Congress passed
a temporary fix.
A Band-Aid.
But these cuts are scheduled to
keep falling across other parts
of the government that provide
vital services for the
American people.
And we can't just keep putting
Band-Aids on every cut.
It's not a responsible
way to govern.
There's only one way to
truly fix the sequester:
by replacing it before it
causes further damage.
A couple weeks ago, I put
forward a budget that replaces
the next several years of these
dumb cuts with smarter cuts;
reforms our tax code to close
wasteful special interest
loopholes; and invests in
things like education, research,
and manufacturing that will
create new jobs right now.
So I hope Members of Congress
will find the same sense of
urgency and bipartisan
cooperation to help the families
still in the crosshairs
of these cuts.
Members of Congress may not feel
the pain felt by kids kicked off
of Head Start, or the 750,000
Americans projected to lose
their jobs because
of these cuts,
or the long-term unemployed who
will be further hurt by them.
But that pain is real.
The American people worked
too hard, for too long,
rebuilding from one economic
crisis just to see your elected
officials keep causing more.
Our economy is growing.
And our deficits are shrinking.
We're creating jobs
on a consistent basis.
But we need to do more to help
middle-class families get ahead,
and give more folks a chance
to earn their way into the
middle class.
We can, if we work together.
That's what you expect.
And that's what I'm going to
keep on working on every single
day to help deliver.
Thanks so much.